# PlayWorkbenchExample
Example setup showing how to use Scala.js with Play while using lihaoyi's Workbench plugin for dev-time efficiency

This git repository contains two sbt projects alongside one another.

In directory `play` is the Main Play Project. Everything you need to run the demo app as a Play project is under this directory. On the command-line just go into the `play` directory and execute `sbt run`. Once Play is running you should be able to test the simple demo web app at http://localhost:9000 This play project was created from an absolutely standard Play template project created using `activator new <projectname> play-scala`. Using https://github.com/vmunier/play-with-scalajs-example as a reference I built a simple client-server web app with a very simple shared data structure, one case class called Shuttle, which represents a message sent from the server to the client. I also deleted some of the unnecessary code put in by the Play 2.5.0 activator template, i.e. the `HomeController`, `AsynchController` and a few other classes that are instructive but not directly relevant to this example setup. This project (in the `play` directory) is a very similar setup to https://github.com/vmunier/play-with-scalajs-example i.e. is simply divided into a `server` project (compiled to the JVM), a `client` project (compiled to JavaScript) and a `shared` project compiled to the both. Ajax communication is handled by [`AutoWire`](https://github.com/lihaoyi/autowire) and [`uPickle ("micro-Pickle")`](https://github.com/lihaoyi/upickle-pprint). This would seem to be a good and productive setup, especially in combination with something like the Play AutoRefresh plugin. But in practice it is typically painfully slow on account of the fact that as you develop the client you probably want to make and try hundreds of little changes and will quite often cause a compile error. Each time you cause a compile error you will get a nice descriptive error from Play including stack-trace etc. ... and you will cause Play to reload. This is time-consuming, and if you have database resources etc. it could be very time-consuming. I have found that typically when I am developing my client I am not simultaneously making lots of changes to the server and the shared data-structures and what I actually want is to be able to fiddle with the client-only code and see the results as quickly as possible without affecting my running server at all. This is where the second project comes in:

In the directory `workbench` is another sbt project which is setup exactly like a client-only Scala.js Workbench project as per any of the demo apps at https://github.com/lihaoyi/workbench-example-app 

What's special though is that the code in the `workbench` project (code under `workbench/src/main/scala`) is just a copy of the *client* code in the `play` project  (from `play/client/src/main/scala`) plus a copy of the *shared* code (from `play/shared/src/main/scala`). i.e. The stand-alone client project in directory `workbench` contains a copy of the all the code the client needs, which is naturally "client-only plus shared". To run this copy of the client in its own process, change to the `workbench` directory on the command-line and execute the command `sbt ~fastOptJS`

Because the client is running in its own process with its own server (i.e. lihaoyi's Workbench plugin which acts as a simple server) but is making Ajax calls to the Play server, one final adjustment needed to be made to the Play project: the CORS filter needed to be activated to authorise cross-origin request. See the `application.conf` file, lines 217 to 227, and the class `Filters` directly under the `app` directory.

The idea is to develop with both the Play server and the Workbench running and the two projects open in separate IDE instances. Once you're happy with your changes in the client, to copy them back into the appropriate directories in the `play` project. As a starting suggestion, I would recommond doing so with your favourite file manager or s small script before every git commit.

Similarly, if you make changes to the shared code you will need to copy those to the other project before your app will function correctly. 

Clearly this manual solution is crying out for a plugin to obviate having to copy the files around, but in practice at the moment this setup allows me to tinker endlessly with the client without interfering with the server, but still keep all the advantages of a code-base continuous across client and server.
  
Forks, pull-requests and contact welcome. 